### Eight Lessons Learned about Non-verbal Interactions through Robot Theater - A Response

I found it interesting that we're still talking about the physical gestures of robots this far into the semester–– it implies that there's a lot more to it and that it's actually quite important than I would have expected in relation to, say, the logic or intellect of said robot. I suppose that it does make sense that in the realm of *performing* robots it's a lot about the *perception* of the robot rather than the actual robot itself. And that seems to be a really, *really* big theme throughout performance: if you can fool the audience, pretty much anything goes. The method of getting there is what's different. Maybe it's hard to put out the latest tech into performances, and so a lot of different methods aside from super-intelligent robots have been looked into, especially regarding *human perception*.

I was curious about the concept of robots and their separation of consciousness from their bodies and how this can be leveraged by communicating on *human* terms. To be more specific I was wondering what it would mean to communicate on robotic terms. Would it be a stream of bits? Jumbled up tokens that only make sense to a certain group of models?

And humor, of course. I really think that humor should be a large part of any performance, really. Entertainment encourages engagement, and engagement oftentimes learning. But humor in itself is kinda tricky to work with, since people have different chords of humor and it's often hard to accomodate for all of them at once. I've seen jokes created by AI at some point using GPT-3 (can this be called *created* if it's something that could have been found on the internet and formulated into a joke?) but they really don't make sense a lot of the time. Of course, in performance you don't *need* to come up with an intellect that makes up jokes on the spot (though improvised jokes would definitely increase likability); you just need to make a robot that has preloaded jokes. That just leaves the responses and timing as issues to address.