### The 'Other' Actor - A Reading Response

This reading kind of touches up on the discussion that we had about what makes a robot seem "human" or "approachable", taking a holistic perspective of not only the behavior but also the exterior of the robot, which is something that we talked about with Alpha's presentation. But I guess in a sense the behavior that was talked about had more to do with movement than personality, in terms of machine movement models. However, at the same time the chapter raised an interesting point that we discussed in class about imperfections–– moving in the complete opposite direction can actually be something that creates a deeper sense of "humanness" in a robot.

The example raised for this was that of R2D2, a fan favorite because of its perceived personality. This raised an interesting point of conversation about the human tendency to project emotion or humanness into inanimate (or inhuman) objects, as opposed to the feeling of discomfort towards objects that are anthromorphic but not quite there (the uncanny valley). Perhaps it is easier to project a perceived humanness to something that does not seem to have the ability to emulate humanness. Maybe behavior could be human-like, but even then it's not the trashcan robots that can speak that are viewed favorably, but rather the ones that *don't* speak any human languages that are thought of as being more "cute" or have a perceived personality that somehow surpasses that of a human and yet is considered human. The human ability to "fill in the blanks" is quite amazing, and it appears even when it comes to rbotos, it seems. Being unrestrained to come to their own conclusions is when humans are the most imaginative, after all.

And then there was the bit about learning to become comfortable with the uncanny valley. There's a reason that it's called uncanny. In any case, it does seem that robotics and the software running them are advancing at breakneck speed and it'll be pretty interesting to see how things change with time–– especially when we start delving into the realm of androids that have broken out of the valley.
