What is the *essence* of being human? I think that this reading is arguing that the sociability aspects of humans are what makes them "human," something that can be imitated, emulated, or even surpassed with artificial intelligence. What does it mean to be able to think? What does it mean to have conscious thought? These are just some of the questions that need to be answered to understand what exactly we're trying to do when we say we're trying to make robots like humans.

At the current point in time, it seems like the only way to truly "humanize" a robot is to "mechanize" the human–– point out how there are people who are more rigid than the robots that we see today. This can create an even more subjective response, but I question the credibility of this method. What exactly are we doing when we humanize a robot, particularly in relation to ourselves? Are we dehumanizing ourselves for the sake of humanizing the robot? Are we reducing our nature, our abilities, our thinking process down to only a few points of conjuncture to feel that we are, indeed, reaching a point where robots are becoming like humans?

We discussed that we want robots to imitate our good traits, but what about the bad ones that exist that are still a part of our nature? What is to be done about these? Do we say that robots have "surpassed" us when they are able to do specific tasks better than us? Do we consider ourselves to be at the top of the proverbial food chain? What exactly do we think about ourselves, and how does this affect the way that we view robots?
