### Robots: Asleep, Awake, Alone, and in Love –– A Response

Something that humans really like doing is anthropomorphising objects, and that's something that can be taken advantage of when it comes to robots in the field of performance. One aspect of performance is the accuracy of it, but another is the imperfections, which create the sense of human-ness. As Verdonck mentions, "it doesn’t really matter if robots have emotions or whether they can think – it doesn’t really matter, because our projection towards them is so big." It is when we project our emotions towards objects–– in this case robots ––that is when the objects start "taking on life" and creating a sense of intimacy between us and them.

What I find interesting is that these projections are a result of specific instructions and design parameters. In other words, it is from the scripted communication between the director and the actor that creates a sense of anthromorphism that goes beyond simply the external appearance, extending into the behavioral aspect of robots. There's mention about how they have a "mind of their own" but in reality it's the actors being affected by their environment despite being programmed to do a specific task. Of course, to the audience it may seem like that. And I think that's something that gives a lot of potential to robots, especially performing ones.

Imitating humans perfectly may be something of great interest, but I do wonder what the reaction may be to something that is as good as, if not better, than an actual human. Would it be positive? Would there be a sense of fear?

There is often a misconception that robots are "perfect" or "don't make mistakes" and this is quite far from the truth. Yes, some machinery can be programmed to perform the same tasks with minimal error and high precision, but when it comes to more dynamic activities, there are so many things that can and do go wrong. Oftentimes a robot is only as precise or clever as its programmer (though machine learning is pushing the limits of this). As a result, there are often imperfections. But if these imperfections are harnessed to create a sense of human-ness? What would this say about the robot, that it is "perfectly" imitating a human? And if a human makes no errors in a performance–– what of this? Are they being inhuman?

Perhaps it is because of the imperfections that we view performing robots as playful, human-like, and can project our emotions onto them. When there is something that seems to truly have emotions of its own, would it still be so easy as to project our emotions onto it?

