### On Stage: Robots as Performers - Response

When talking about human robot interactions, the author writes about how in the interaction there are different factors involved in making some things seem human. I found the part about linking theater, human theater to be precise, to be very interesting. I have an interest in theater in to the theater course in New York and some of the content that came out in that course or talked about in this paper.

The internal monologue with some thing that caught my eye especially since it was something that we were told repeatedly we needed to have when performing for an audience. A lot of the time it's very easy to project our thoughts and opinions of a character into our performance. For example, with a character who seems a little bit dorky or maybe mean, one might end up exaggerating those aspects of the character, ruining the overall immersiveness of the performance. This got me thinking about what exactly we are projecting into the robots  when we program them to have some kind of internal monologue. What are the expectations that we have towards robots, particularly performing robots?

The concept of using an over arching idea or a goal for a robot as a way to create an artificial internal monologue is something that I think was already in one of the readings that we had before. The woggles, the possessing a very simple sort of internal monologue, each had their own personalities and goals. But can an internal monologue, especially if it is something that is programmed and not adaptable to the situation, end up ruining the immersive experience instead of enhancing it? If the environment, for example, completely changes, or if the situation calls for a new kind of internal monologue or goal, Will the robot be able to adapt accordingly? Of course, this delves into the realm of programming and artificial intelligence, which is beyond the scope of this class. Regardless, it is something that is quite interesting to think about. Will there come in time where artificial intelligence will allow a robot to adapt to any performative situation?

Regarding responsiveness, the speed at which a robot responds to an action or input is definitely important. However, it is also important to consider, as the author writes, that things beyond speed are important; the reaction itself and the sense that it makes or two very important points. How human–– how real is the response? The question that I had regarding this was how or what the relationship between speed and accuracy. Is there an effective balance, if at all?
